Fri Feb 12, 1999

I completed IA-6, leaving only IA-8 to go!!!

Thread: License Test Progress

Well, I worked late last night, and didn't intend to play too much Gran
Turismo.  I thought I'd just fail the IA-6 test, time trial of Trial
Mountain with a Viper GTS, for practice.

Before warming up, my natural lap time seemed to be about 1:39, well
above the require 1:33.  But after warming up I found myself
putting in frequent 1:34.xxx, with only the occasional attempt
over 1:36.  And, occasionally I would put in 1:33.xxx as well.

So, eventually, after persisting a bit too long, I managed 1:32.768.
The lap was not entirely tidy.  I actually ran onto the concrete apron
in the first tunnel, and really didn't have comfortable control of the
car until I had rounded the sharp right at the bottom of the hill.  I
did do a very smooth run through the next set of corners, drifting
wide on one corner to the edge, but not onto the grass, and my
entrance into the long tunnel was very good and clean.  I cleanly took
the  near hairpin at the bottom of the hill, but dropped one wheel
into the grass and threw up some dirt exiting the next series of
corners.  By now I had a real nice boxed drift approach for the
next corner, and I found an appropriate line through the final
esses to finish just in time.

Completing the test was a combination of a little thinking and a lot of
practice to just absorb things subconsciously--throwing the car into
the corner leading to the penultimate straight, for instance.

So now there's just the final to get my International A-class license.
I tried that test just once--a lap of Grand Valley II in the Viper--and
did not complete it.  I looped while exiting the hairpin esses, so the
run was a wipeout.  But I never finished it, coming off at the
second-last hairpin--i.e. not the one just after the tunnel, but the
next one after that, following the relatively high-speed section.

I have now finally correctly read the documentation for the InterAct
Performance Mega Memory card.  If you're very unlucky, it could hold as
little as 4 regular cards.  24 cards is the absolute maximum.

What the megacard does, I think, is store the currently active card
uncompressed in a buffer, and compress it into sort of an archive when
you ask to swap in another card.  The upshot of this is that it can get
into a state where you cannot swap cards without deleting data.  The
indicator to show that this has occurred is a tiny little "ER" on the
LCD display.  Data can only be deleted from the currently active card,
so you should always have an empty regular card ready to take the data
of the current page should you get into this situation.  Of course, you
need to be in the Sony memory card monitor to do that.  But you
remember how the documentation told you not to switch the active card
anywhere else?

The card has nothing to indicate what proportion of actual memory you
have used up.  It has a little 3x8 array of pixels to indicate which
pages contain some data.  It might have been easy for them to add
another 1x8 line to indicate to the nearest 8th how full the card
was actually getting.

Most games use only one block to store their saved states.  Gran
Turismo uses 5 for its basic state, plus the optional 2 for car
settings and any amount you wish for replay files.  I suspect a lot of
compression of one block files will occur because not all of that block
is actually used.  In multi-block files, however, one can assume that
100% of all but one of the blocks is used.  So compression should
become poorer.  An empty Gran Turismo Replay file probably compresses
really well, and more real memory will be needed each time a new replay
is saved.  On the other hand, I would imagine most replays contain a
lot of repeated data and so probably compress relatively well.

But, in any case, once you have 4 cards stored on the megacard, you
cannot guarantee that you can swap in another card.  In my case, it is
difficult to read the display on the card, so it is even more awkward
to use, since ideally you want to be able to observe the tiny LED
indicators.
