Tue Feb  9, 1999

Hey!  Now I can win the Sunday Cup without a lot of extra tuning!

Threads:
  Prize Car Patterns

Well, yesterday I spent more time than I should have playing Gran Turismo.

First of all, I took out my old MA70 Supra Turbo Limited and took
off all the extra parts except for Weight Reduction Stage 1.  I
then proceeded to win each Spot Race and sweep the Sunday Cup
(except for poles).  Most Spot Races took only one try to win,
but Deep Forest took me two attempts; I really do have problems
with that course, don't I?

After that I went and bought the cheapest used MA70 in stock, something
under Cr8000, and won High Speed Ring and Sunday Cup with it.  So I
proved you can get the game well under way with practice or talent and
only a B licence.  Besides that, when I bought my first MA70 I chose
one which was more expensive because I thought, although I now do not
think it is the case, that different used cars might show different
signs of wear.  Besides that, the more expensive one was red.  8-)
Parenthetically, one strange feature of Gran Turismo is that you can
buy multiple instances of the same used car.

It had seemed to me that the two MA70 had different gear ratios;
my old one seemed to have a big jump from second to third which
was annoying, but consulting the figures suggested that the
two setups were identical.

When I look at the cost of weight reduction and stabilizers, you can
afford both in addition to the cheap MA70 with your initial Cr10000.
Semi-racing tires seemed expensive, and were a big help when less
skillful, and racing tires even more so.  But if you have the skill to
easily afford them, you probably don't need them.  When I first played,
I would save my Cr100 last place money and carefully save up for extra
turbo so I could win the High Speed Ring, and then use Cr1000 to buy
racing tires and stuff, but that all seems so unnecessary now.  But
then, it actually took me a little while to get my B license.

But a "good" or "natural" player should just get their B license, buy
the cheap MA70, win the Sunday Cup a few times and begin buying and
modifying cars which can win the FF,FR,4WD, and Lwt series.  They
might even want to go straight to their A license which opens up
the Clubman Cup and GT Cup for more money, not to mention the
International Series and Mega-Speed Event.  (And really skillful
players have a reasonable chance of winning the very lucrative Normal
Car Series, which is just an excercise in frustration for me).

In addition to that, I won a purple Chrysler Concept Car.  I spent a
lot of time losing the JPvsUS series with the Viper GTS-R.  Gee I hate
that car now.  I finally discovered that a slight reduction of front
aero makes it a lot more handleable, but after three or more losing
attempts to win that series I decided to take a Cerbera and try and win
the UKvsUS instead.

I've decided that I never go cold into an International Series now, but
take the car to Clubman or GT Cup, depending how much time I have, for
warm-up and extra cash.  So, I took a maxed purchased Cerbera, not
the LM Edition, to one of those series (can't remember which) and
won handily.  I came very close to breaking records (which had
probably been set by the Cerbera LM), but didn't actually break any.

The useful performance difference between a maxed Cerbera and the LM
edition seems negligible.  The problem is, for 145 extra HP you get
360 more pounds.  Power-to-weight ends up .292 to .268 in favour of
the LM edition.  Gosh, the stats for a maxed Viper are better than
a prize Viper GTS-R; well, the prize car has much more horse power,
but a lower ratio.  Too bad you can't transfer that 7 speed gear
box to a maxed car.  8-)

I began to suspect that the Viper was a handful when I observed how,
even though it would win the two GT League series, its times would be
very far away from records--especially on Grand Valley II.  In
contrast, the Cerbera times were close to my records.

During the course of the days's Viper racing I saved one fun replay.
On Trial Mountain II, part of JPvsUS, there is a vicious bump going
into the last tunnel--the one with the corner in it.  This causes lots
of cars, especially the Viper, to flip their tail up higher than their
nose,  It can look quite strange.  But taking it too slow up that
hill is not a good strategy either.  The really interesting thing
on the replay was that an AI car went up into that corner, off onto
the outside apron, and spun out.  That's the first time I've ever
seen an AI car spin out unassisted.  I've seen them go off course,
but not spin out.

One thing that makes the Viper bad within the game parameters is that
its co-efficient of friction with walls seems much higher.  I wonder if
this is because the computer model has its wheels actually sticking out
the side so they contact the wall before the body panels?  In contrast,
the Cerbera slides along walls quite nicely.  8-)  Not only the
external walls bother the Viper, but it can also get hung up on
the inside rumble strips.  In similar contrast, on SSR11 the AI
Cerbera, which usually leads, makes a habit of going over the inside
rumble strip on corners and flipping itself onto two wheels.

So then I entered UKvsUS with my maxed purchased Cerbera.  I won
the first three events--Trial Mountain II, Special Stage R5, and
High Speed Ring--quite handily.  I had a little problem with
the fourth event, Grand Valley II.  I have difficulty with that
high-speed corner after the long straight.  They really should
have an exercise like that on the A license test.  So I was in
a nervous third coming up to the end, wondering if I could
make one or both places up on the final hairpin, and instead
I lost it and settled for fifth.

So, instead of entering SSR11 with an unbeatable 36 to 24 lead, I only
led 29 to 27--the Corvette had consistently come second in all races,
leaving no other car in contention.  So, essentially, I needed to
finish ahead of the Corvette in the next race.

I saved the replay of the Final race, because it looked reasonably
exciting.  In typical inelegant, cavalier, wall-bouncing fashion
I worked my way from my sixth place qualifying to third, and
followed the other Cerbera (luckily blue, not raspberry like mine, or
the replay would be quite difficult to follow) and the second-place
Corvette around for most of the first lap looking for good passing
opportunities.  I eventually got past the Corvette, but was
really cautious about passing the Cerbera, since I didn't need
to pass it.  The central hairpin, turning onto the straight which
leads to the tricky turn into the underpass with the chicane, is
a place where I should learn to gain a consistent half second
or so.  But during a race is not a time to learn that, so, since
the Cerbera, but only the Cerbera, would go by me, I let it by.

I passed the Cerbera into the lead at the beginning of the second lap,
that is, after the acceleration through the finishing straight.  At the
end of the second lap, I accelerated cleanly past before the finishing
line.  At the end of the third lap it looked like the Cerbera waited
for in the middle of the final corner.  This was somewhat annoying
because I was planning to accelerate through the corner.  But there
was actually room to squeeze by on the outside and so I won the race.

When I watched the replay I was shocked to see the Corvette about
two car lengths behind me for most of the race.  If I had known it
had been that close, I would probably have got nervous and flubbed
the race.  8-)  The chicane in the underpass is the most nerve-wracking
part of the course--too fast and you might hit a barrier and lose a
lot of ground; too slow and the AI cars are liable to get by, and
quite probably ruthlessly knock you out of control in the process.

Thread: Prize Car Patterns

And then I discovered that it was UKvsUK which awarded the Concept Car
prize.  8-)  All the time I'd been trying to win JPvsUS in the Viper,
I had been going after the wrong prize!  In JPvsUS, it seemed that
the game was trying less hard to let the Viper win than in previous
such series.  The Rally Edition Subaru tended to walk away with
all the races the Viper did not win.  But, given how slow the Viper is
(it seems totally unsuitable to me on the SSR11), I guess perhaps
I cannot categorically say that the game is making the series actually
more difficult than the first times I tried it.  (Those times were
with the 900hp monster Skyline).

Oh yes.  I observed that the Toyota cars seemed to offer no FF used cars,
although some of the new versions of old FR models
do seem to be FF.  I
drive in real-life a FF 1985 Toyota Tercel Station Wagon, 
and find its handling a little squirrelly, since
presumably in the interest of weight
over the driving wheels, the Tercel engine is far too far forward to
create desirable handling characteristics.
So based on that I would not have been suprised if Toyota offered
no FF cars as performance cars in the game, but in fact under the
new car offerings there are a few.
===============================================================================
Copyright (C) 1999, the author/owner of http://www.math.uwaterloo.ca/~arpepper
To obtain the email address of the author, take what comes after the
squiggle, and append an at-sign and the Web server names which appears
between the slashes.  Personal email correspondence is invited;
commercial solicitation is not.
The video game title, "Gran Turismo", is a trade mark of Sony Computer
Entertainment Incorporated.
All views are those of the author.  Much information was the author's
opinion or musings at the time of writing, and apparent advice
obviously carries no guarantees or warranties.  If you look closely,
you'll notice he contradicts himself occasionally, anyway.


